[Music]
well here's another tall tale for you
but this time it's true six easy ways to
make yourself taller so you want to be
taller huh I don't know I think you're
great just the way you are but I admit
there are some advantages to being tall
I mean you can reach high shelves and
you don't have to worry about anybody
blocking your view at movies or concerts
and it's easier to slam dunk in
basketball now not all of us are
naturally tall and that can be
frustrating so are you out of luck just
because you weren't genetically gifted
with bonus height yeah there are a
number of things you can do to up your
chances of well going up this is
especially true for teens and even young
adults since their bodies are still
growing Plus want to be tall people have
a few simple tricks up their sleeve to
maximize their height so let's get on
with it and find out how you can make
yourself taller but before we start be
sure to subscribe to our Channel and
turn on notifications then you won't
miss any of our new videos
[Music]
alright here's number one eat a healthy
balanced diet remember when you were a
kid and your parents all we said eat
your veggies if you want to grow a big
and strong well they definitely knew
what they were talking about eating
right in your youth helps you grow
taller so pay attention to these diet
tips first get plenty of lean protein
protein is extremely important for
growth and muscle development so you
should try to consume it whenever
possible this includes beans eggs
skinless white poultry like chicken or
turkey fish and soy avoid fattier
sources of protein like red meat dark
poultry and poultry skin because they
can be high in saturated fat be careful
with protein supplements like energy
bars a lot of them have tons of sugar
and fat so make sure you read the label
first stay away from simple
carbohydrates fatty or processed foods
and sweet stuff really yep so that's a
no for things like pizza non whole-wheat
pasta
cakes and of course fast food you want
to eat more complex carbs like beans
wild or brown rice and potatoes no we're
not talking about the fried kind they're
too fatty and have most of the nutrients
cooked right out of them they're too
fatty into a minimum I know that seems
impossible when you're surrounded by
candy chips soda and all sorts of
heavily sweetened food even fruit juice
is super high in sugar so you shouldn't
have more than one glass a day the more
sugar you put in your body the more your
body has to store the excess energy in
your fat cells plus you don't want an
increased risk of developing diabetes
eat healthy snacks like veggies and nuts
and switch your pop out for water
now let's see which vitamins and
nutrients you'll want to pay special
attention to if you're looking to gain
new heights
make calcium your best friend calcium
helps build muscles and healthy bones
you can find it in spinach kale tofu
beans broccoli and dairy the comment
saying is that plenty of milk build
strong bones but watch out a high intake
of milk has been linked to prostate and
possibly ovarian cancer not to mention
it can be full of saturated fat and
added sugar now I'm not saying you
shouldn't drink milk at all just know
that there are other healthier options
out there make sure to eat foods high in
zinc researchers at the university of
new zealand found a possible link
between zinc deficiency and reduced
growth so try to up your intake of
seafood such as crabs and oysters or you
don't have to tell me twice
along with wheat germ pumpkin seeds lamb
and nuts especially peanuts vitamin D is
extremely important for healthy growth
and studies show that when you don't get
enough of this vitamin it can stunt
growth or cause weight gain you can get
your vitamin D in fish mushrooms and
alfalfa some milks fruit juices and
cereals come fortified with vitamin D
too or you can always just spend more
time outdoors there's a reason vitamin D
is called the sunshine vitamin you'll
get plenty of it from exposure to
natural sunlight in fact all you need is
15 minutes to get your fair share just
don't forget your sunscreen
[Music]
tip number two get plenty of exercise
exercise goes hand-in-hand with a
balanced diet in building a strong
healthy tall body you should spend at
least 30 minutes a day working your
muscles and limiting your time spent on
sedentary activities like playing video
games or watching movies I know they're
fun and all but maybe you can make TV
time a reward for getting in your daily
workout one of the funnest ways to get
enough exercise is to join a sports team
find a sport you enjoy particularly an
active one like soccer or basketball you
can very easily spend an hour or two
running around without even trying too
hard
other good options are signing up for a
track team or getting together with your
friends and throwing a ball or frisbee
around if you're not really into sports
consider joining a gym it'll give you
access to weight racks machines
calibrated to maximize muscle
development and helpful information from
nutritionists and Fitness specialists
going to the gym will also keep you
accountable odds are you'll feel pretty
silly if you're at the gym but you're
not working out if none of those options
are your cup of tea or they don't really
work for you personally get out and walk
around make walking a regular part of
your routine if you want to go somewhere
whether it be the grocery store or the
library if it's within walking distance
then hoof it
[Music]
tip number three get enough sleep
hey I get it you've got a lot on your
plate at school work or at home and
we're all guilty of staying up late
watching TV or binging on YouTube videos
but don't underestimate the importance
of sleep sleep is vital especially when
you're young and your body still growing
you see when you're off and dreamland
your body is busy producing the human
growth hormone HGH so if you limit your
sleep it's basically like limiting your
chances for growth it's also so crucial
for fitness and health in general the
National Sleep Foundation recommends
teens get from eight to ten hours of
sleep while adults should be aiming for
seven to nine hours man I don't think
I'm getting my fair share
however quality is just as important as
quantity make sure you're sleeping in a
pitch-black room that's right no TV or
gadgets running with a temperature
between 60 and 67 degrees Fahrenheit for
the best sleep you can get getting good
sound sleep will stimulate your
pituitary gland to produce more HGH and
you'll function better throughout the
day
tip number four have taller parents
yeah well it's not very fair advice now
is it it's not like you can go back in
time and make your mom and dad taller
but it's important to understand that 60
to 80 percent of your height is genetic
and there's not much you can do about
that but don't lose hope whether your
parents are short or even tall you can
still increase your chances of growing
taller than them by using the techniques
in this video tip number five avoid
things that stunt your growth well
you're working to maximize your height
try not to do anything counterproductive
to that goal and there are several
things you can do to keep yourself on
the short side so do your best to avoid
them drugs and alcohol they both can
restrict your growth either directly or
by messing up your diet and sleep cycle
drugs and alcohol are especially harmful
during your youth which again is your
primary growth years malnutrition you've
probably heard that people were shorter
in the past and that was primarily due
to malnutrition make sure you get enough
to eat
and again consume a nutritionally
balanced diet
caffeine some people say the caffeine
stunt your growth but does it really
most studies have debunked this myth but
keep in mind that caffeine can disrupt
your sleep cycle and remember sleep is
necessary for proper growth tobacco
according to Columbia University's
internet health resource the available
research suggests that children who
smoke or are exposed to secondhand smoke
are shorter than those who don't smoke
or are children of non-smokers so to be
on the safe side and to avoid cancer
stay far away from smoking and that
includes vaping guys
steroids definitely do not take steroids
anabolic steroids mess up your body in
lots of ways
low sperm count and Men inhibited breast
development in women weak bones elevated
blood pressure and potential heart
attack
yikes if you have asthma or use an
inhaler that dispenses the steroid Boone
is on IDE you'll probably end up on
average half an inch shorter than those
who don't
number six embellish your height so
you've done everything right and
maximized your growth
you're as tall as you're going to get
but you're still not satisfied with your
height now what well here are some
tricks you can use to make yourself seem
taller stand and sit with good posture
don't slouch roll your shoulders
slightly toward your back you'll look
taller and in command we're tighter
clothes fitted clothing accentuates the
line of your body and makes you look
visually taller baggy clothes however
hide those lines making you seem smaller
slim fitting clothes can also give you a
significant confidence boost in our
perceived height is as much a matter of
how we present ourselves as how tall we
actually are go for height boosting
Footwear years ago I remember Elton John
wore four to five inch platform shoes to
be taller
so did I back that today's boots have
thick soles that can add an inch or so
to your height and of course heels are
always an option if you have long legs
wear shorts or miniskirts long dresses
or leggings that show only a little bit
of skin between the hem and your socks
make your legs look shorter weird
dark-colored clubs they're naturally
slimming colors like black dark blue and
forest green can all contribute to
looking taller especially if you go dark
from head-to-toe wear clothing with
vertical stripes this print produces an
optical illusion that makes you look
visually taller horizontal stripes do
the opposite making you look stocky and
short finally hey you can try stilts and
add a few feet to your height otherwise
you can always surround yourself with
minions like the ones from Despicable Me
either way you can't help but look
taller
so your highness what's the best tall
tip you know tell us in the comments
below don't forget to give us a like and
click subscribe to stay on the bright
side of life
[Music]